.TH html2xhtml 1 ""
.SH NAME
html2xhtml \- Converts HTML files to XHTML
.SH SYNTAX 

.B html2xhtml
[
.I filename
] [
.I options
] 

.SH DESCRIPTION

Html2xhtml is a command-line tool that converts HTML files to
XHTML files. The path of the HTML input file can be provided
as a command-line argument. If not, it is read from stdin.
.PP
Xhtml2xhtml tries always to generate valid XHTML files.
It is able to correct many common errors in input HTML
files without loose of information. However, for some errors, html2xhtml
may decide to loose some information in order to generate a valid XHTML output.
This can be avoided with the 
.I -e 
option, which allows html2xhtml to
generate non-valid output in these cases.
.PP
Html2xhtml can generate the XHTML output compliant to one of
the following document types:
XHTML 1.0 (Transitional, Strict and Frameset), XHTML 1.1,
XHTML Basic and XHTML Mobile Profile. 
.SH OPTIONS
.if n .ta 2.8i
.if t .ta 2.1i

The command line options/arguments are:
.IP \fBfilename\fR 20
Read the HTML input from
.I filename
(optional argument). If this argument is not provided, 
the HTML input is read from standard input.
.IP \fB-c\ \fIinput-encoding\fR 20
Encoding of the input HTML file. Overrides automatic
input encoding detection (please, read the note about
input encodings bellow).
.IP \fB-d\ \fIdefault-input-encoding\fR 20
Default input encoding, if it is not declared
in the input file. By default, ISO-8859-1
(please, read the note about input encodings bellow).
.IP \fB-e\fR 20
Instructs the program to propagate input chunks to 
the output even if it is unable to adapt them to
the output XHTML doctype. Using this option, 
the XHTML output may be non-valid. Not using this
option, some input data could be removed from the
output in some [rare] cases.
.IP \fB-t\ \fIoutput-doctype\fR 20
Doctype of the output XHTML file. If not specified,
the program selects automatically either 
XHTML 1.0 Transitional or XHTML 1.0 Frameset 
depending on the input. Current available
doctypes are:
.br
 o \fItransitional\fR
XHTML 1.0 Transitional
.br
 o \fIframeset\fR
XHTML 1.0 Frameset
.br 
 o \fIstrict\fR
XHTML 1.0 Strict
.br 
 o \fI1.1\fR
XHTML 1.1
.br 
 o \fIbasic\fR
XHTML Basic
.br 
 o \fImp\fR
XHTML Mobile Profile
.SH NOTE ON CHARACTER ENCODINGS

Html2xhtml does not perform any character encoding conversion.
The character encoding of the input is propagated to the
output. The options that set character encodings only declare
them in the output XHTML file.
.PP
This program only works for input encodings that code every ASCI
character (0-127) only with one byte. This includes, for example,
ISO-8859-1, ISO-8859-15, UTF-8. However, the program does not work
for encoding UTF-16. For converting UTF-16 files, please convert it 
first to UTF-8.
.SH ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
.na 
.nf

Program developer up to current version:
Jesus Arias Fisteus <jaf@it.uc3m.es>
.PP
The first working version of this program has been developed as 
a Master Thesis at the University of Vigo (Spain) [http://www.uvigo.es],
advised by:
.PP
Rebeca Diaz Redondo
Ana Fernandez Vilas
.PP
Copyright 2000-2007 by Jesus Arias Fisteus, Rebeca Diaz Redondo, Ana
Fernandez Vilas.


